---
title: "SAML"
description:
  "PropelAuth's SAML SSO support allows your end users to connect their
  organizations directly to however they manage employees internally."
---

As an example, lets say you have a customer "Acme Co". Acme's IT team uses
OneLogin as their identity provider, meaning that all employees at the company
have an account with OneLogin. New employees are onboarded to OneLogin and
exiting employees are removed.

A SAML connection between your product and Acme allows Acme's IT team to specify
which users have access to your product. They could give everyone at the company
access, specify teams like only the engineering team, or even pick specific
people to give access.

Here's an example where Acme gives a user access to Figma directly from
OneLogin.

![user being added to figma](/images/saml-1.png)

PropelAuth's SAML support extends our [hosted UIs](https://demo.propelauth.com/)
with a full set of UIs to enable your users to setup SAML connections with you.
Your users select the identity provider they use:

![user selecting an IDP](/images/saml-2.png)

And then are guided through the process of setting up a SAML connection with
step-by-step instructions:

![saml wizard](/images/saml-3.png)

Once the connection is set up, your users can test the connection to make sure
it is working:

![testing a saml connection](/images/saml-4.png)

This SAML connection is tied to an organization, meaning that any user that logs
in via Acme's SAML connection will automatically be added to Acme's
organization.

### Working with SAML

So far, we've seen that your users can set up a SAML connection and easily
onboard/offboard their users to an organization within your product. But what do
you need to do to interact with SAML?

Pretty much nothing - SAML is an implementation detail of how an organization
manages their users within your product. Some organizations will set up SAML
while others will use our other supported methods like inviting coworkers
manually or allowing anyone with a matching email domain (e.g. @acme.com) to
join. Any code you write that deals with organizations will work, regardless of
the method that organization uses to manage its members.

### Controlling who can set up SAML

With the click of a button, you can allow all of your organizations to set up
SAML connections with you. However, you may not want that if you consider SAML
to be an enterprise/paid feature.

You can select which organizations can use SAML either in your dashboard or
programmatically via our APIs.
